# UoA SSO Timetable to iCalendar
This script fetches data from the timetable on SSO (Student Services Online) and converts it into `.ics` format. This script was written as UoA decommissioned UoACal with zero notice and has yet to communicate when a replacement service would be available.

> [!CAUTION]
> **Standard cybersecurity warning:**
> Do not blindly run code from untrusted sources. Please audit the code before running it.

## Usage
> [!WARNING]
> ### **Create a new calendar in your calendar application separate from your main calendar.**
> 
> **This script works differently to UoACal**. The link UoACal gives subscribes you to a separate calendar, the whole calendar is easily removable.
>
> The `.ics` file that this script generates will import events into YOUR (likely main or personal, by default) calendar and, if you don't import the `.ics` file into a separate calendar, the events CANNOT be easily removed in bulk. Instructions to do this for a few popular calendar applications are in the FAQ below.
>
> **If you don't import the generated `.ics` into a separate calendar, you will need to manually delete the events** (30 events in my case) when you want to remove all events generated by this script. You may want to do that for several reasons:
> - The script is not working properly and generates classes with incorrect dates or times.
> - UoA releases their successor to UoACal and you want to stop using this to switch to that instead.
> - You have changed your enrollments and wish to update your timetable again. You need to delete the previous events and import them again.
>   - **⚠️ Previous events may not get deleted (causing a double-up).**
>   - **⚠️ Changed class times may not get deleted.**
> 
> Use at your own risk. Verify the calendar is correct before confirming the import into your calendar application.

0. Please read the `Important` block above. This will NOT work if your time zone is not `Pacific/Auckland` (e.g., you are overseas). Change your device time zone to `Pacific/Auckland`
1. Go to the ["My Class Timetable" page on SSO](https://www.student.auckland.ac.nz/psc/ps/EMPLOYEE/SA/c/UOA_MENU_FL.UOA_VW_CAL_FL.GBL)
2. Open the JavaScript Console:
   - On Firefox and forks (e.g. Librewolf, Waterfox, Pale Moon), Chromium and forks (e.g. Chrome, Edge, Brave, Opera):
     - `ctrl` + `shift` + `I`
     - Click on the "[Console]" tab at the top
   - On Safari on macOS (unverified; I do not have macOS):
     - You will need to enable the "Develop" menu in the menu bar:
       - `⌘` + `,` to open Safari Preferences, or use the "Safari" Menu
       - Navigate to the "Advanced" tab, find "Show Develop menu in menu bar" and enable this setting
     - `Option` + `⌘` + `C` to open the JavaScript Console, or use the "Show JavaScript Console" in the "Develop" menu
3. Copy the code from  [uoa-timetable-to-ical.js](https://github.com/Excigma/Userscripts/blob/trunk/student.auckland.ac.nz/uoa-timetable-to-ical.js)
4. Paste the code into the console. You may need to allow pasting before your browser allows you to paste code into the console
5. Press Enter to run the code. You should see the script switching to the "List View" tab, opening "Meeting Information" for each meeting, and finally downloading a file: `uoa-sso-calendar.ics`. The `.ics` file's contents will be logged to the console as well
6. Note: Importing events from `.ics` files might be a **difficult to reverse action** depending on your calendar application. Read the `Important` block above before importing the `.ics` file.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Events may show up even on public holidays when classes are not running. Check SSO on public holidays to verify. The calendar will not update if your timetable changes.**
>
> If you ran this script before the semester has started, please double check that the class times are still correct after the semester starts. Sometimes you may be re-allocated to a different class/tutorial/lab time; the script will not update your calendar automatically.

## FAQ
### Does it automatically update/sync with SSO?
**No.** This script does not automatically update your calendar. This script reads your timetable information once when you run the script and creates set weekly "Events" from the start/end date times. You will need to run the script again if your timetable changes and delete the old events from your calendar (ideally you would have read the warning and have created a new calender, in which case you can delete the whole calender).

### How do I import the `.ics` into a new calendar separate from my main calendar?
#### Google Calendar
- You can make a new calendar by visiting https://calendar.google.com
  - I don't believe you can create new calendars in the Google Calendar app on mobile
- Go to "Settings" > "Add calendar" > "Create new calendar"
- Create a new calendar for UoA SSO Timetable to iCalendar's `.ics` import
- Import the `.ics` file by going to "Settings" > "Import & export". Make sure you select the correct calendar to import into

#### Apple Calendar
- Open the Calendar app on your Mac
  - I don't believe you can easily import `.ics` files on mobile
- Go to "File" > "New Calendar"
- Create a new calendar for UoA SSO Timetable to iCalendar's `.ics` import
- Import the `.ics` file by going to "File" > "Import" and selecting the `.ics` file then click "Import". Make sure you select the correct calendar to import into

...feel free to contribute steps for your favorite calendar application

## Credits
- [@Silverarmor](https://github.com/Silverarmor) for sharing places with timetable data and ideas how to parse it - the method that this script works is based on his ideas
- [@BirdMakingStuff](https://github.com/BirdMakingStuff) for testing early revisions of the script reporting bugs, and providing fixes
- [@tash192dev](https://github.com/tash192dev) for providing examples of the `.ics` format, allowing me to fix time zone/date-related issues
